Commure Activation Lead Case Study
Feel free to present your ideas in a memo format, and use whatever tools help bring your thinking to life—whether that’s flowcharts, spreadsheets, diagrams, or anything else. The goal is to put together a clear and actionable scale-up plan that’s grounded in data and realistic to implement within 30 days.
Revenue Cycle Background:
For this case study, you only need a high level understanding of Revenue Cycle Management. It is the process of collecting clinical information, submitting claims to insurance companies, and collecting + reporting revenue back to the customer (healthcare practice). You can treat it as an abstract, simplified manufacturing process with the following (rough) substeps:
1. Extract Encounters - find appointments / encounters that the doctor completed in their EHR (electronic health record).
2. Submit Claims - manually punch in the details per appointment into an insurance portal for submission.
3. Reconcile - per-claim manually (phone calls, and insurance portals), check with insurance companies (14-30 days after submission) whether the claim was approved or not, and how much was paid out.
4. Denial Analysis - from reconciliation, review the reasons that insurance denied given claims
5. Resubmission - make fixes to the denied claims and resubmit
6. Revenue Reporting - continuous reporting of revenue + operational metrics back to the customer
Assume that steps 1-5 each take roughly 2-5 minutes per claim. Assume that entry level analyst wages in India are utilized across the board, and manager wages (40-50% higher) where needed. Assume Commure generates its revenue by collecting 5% of all revenue from the practice.
Case Study:
You are a General Manager (GM) in charge of 100 Commure Revenue Cycle Management (RCM) accounts representing $10mm ARR in aggregate to the company ($200mm in total claims collected for practices - 5% take rate). Most of these accounts are mid-sized healthcare practices, focusing on a certain specialty.
● Assume that the average dollar per-encounter for our customer is $200 (of which we collect 5%).
● Assume that the software automations of the product are not built out at all, and everything is to be done manually using our labor-force in India and manual submissions into insurance company portals.
● Assume that we have full access to the doctor’s EHR, along with all necessary insurance portals. Assume that all 100 accounts will all onboard over the course of 1 quarter (3 months), 10 in the first month, 30 in the second, and 60 in the third.
● Assume customer SLAs of submissions being made within 5-days of a doctor’s appointment, and denials being worked within 3-days of response from payer.
Additionally, the customer will expect a dollar approval rate of 90% for the charged
amount across all encounters.
● Assume the target margin profile of the business is ~60% gross margin.
Process and Org build-out:
Talk us through how you will scale up the entire operation: hires necessary in the US, manual
labor-force in India, for extracting + submitting, claims, quality control, measuring metrics,
customer service, etc. Should include capacity planning, manager / pod structures, tools and
systems you want to use, meeting cadences, metric ownership, etc.
Assume you have 1 month to do the requisite hiring in the US / India prior to the start of the
quarter, and then hiring may continue through the quarter.
Ensure that customers have access to necessary information and are happy with the delivery of
service, and describe the process / hires / systems by which this is ensured. Go over the
necessary capacity planning, quality control models, and overall scale up + monitoring of the
process.
Metrics and KPIs:
What are the key metrics you are tracking to judge performance of onboarding, implementation,
and ongoing operation of the accounts? What metrics matter to you as the GM, along with your
direct reports. Describe in detail (feel free to use something like https://www.tryeraser.com/ or
https://excalidraw.com/ to create a whiteboard diagram) what metrics dashboarding you would
use, and how would you set it up?
Execution:
The next step is to clearly describe what you would do in your first 7, 30, 60, and 90 days in
setting up this operation. Assume the India office has to be built out from scratch, and our first
customers are ready to go. How are you structuring your days, and what are your first steps?